Let's now actually configure Multer to our needs.
First giving images a better filename,
then second allowing only image files
to be uploaded onto our server.
And to start, let's actually move
all the Multer-related stuff
from this router to the controller.
So let's cut this here,
and I'm gonna put it right here at the end,
or actually at the top, all right?
So everything related to Multer,
we're going to put it right here at the top.
Then we also need of course to import this Multer package.
And now we also need to create a middleware with this.
So exports.uploadUserPhoto
will be equal to this.
All right, and so we still have a middleware function,
but now it's got its own easier to use name, all right?
And so here, userController.uploadPhoto, all right?
So that looks much nicer,
and of course it makes sense
that this code is in the controller.
And so now this is nice and clean,
and we can actually close it now.
Great, and so now let's actually go ahead
and configure our Multer upload to our needs.
And so for that we are going to create one Multer storage
and one Multer filter, all right?
And then we're going to use that storage and the filter
to then create the upload from there, all right?
So let's do that here.
So a multerStorage, we use multer.diskStorage.
All right, and we could also choose
to store the file in memory as a buffer,
so that we could then use it later by other processes.
And actually we're gonna do that a bit later,
but for now of course we want to really store the file
as it is in our file system, okay?
So for disk storage we'll take a couple of options,
and the first one is the destination.
But now we cannot simply set it to this path
like we did before.
No, this is a bit more complex, all right?
And so really this destination here is a callback function
which goes like this.
So this callback function has access to the current request,
to the currently uploaded file,
and also to a callback function.
And this callback function is a bit
like the next function in Express.
But I'm calling it cb here, which stands for callback,
so that it's a different name than next,
because actually it doesn't come from Express, okay?
But it's similar in that we can pass errors in here
and other stuff, as you will see in a second.
So to now define the destination,
we actually need to call that callback.
So callback, and then the first argument is an error
if there is one.
And if not, then just null.
And the second argument is then the actual destination.
So let's copy that from here,
and paste it here.
All right, and again this all looks a bit weird and complex,
and let's actually take a look
at the Multer documentation on GitHub.
Okay, and so if you need to learn more,
you can take a look at this documentation here.
And as you see, with 6,000 stars,
it's actually a pretty popular package.
So here you can learn how to use it.
But in fact what you will find here
is kind of what we're gonna do
throughout the next couple of lectures, okay?
So this looks way more confusing
than what we're going to do, all right?
But you see that this is actually
what we're doing currently, so we're setting the destination
and next we will actually also set the filename.
So let's do that, and again, if you want to learn more
just take a look at that documentation.
But for now I want to now set the filename property.
So not that, simply filename.
And again, that's a very similar callback function
with a similar signature, request, file and callback.
And now we want to give our files some unique filenames.
And the way I'm going to do that
is to call them user-userid- the current timestamp.
So something like this: so user-,
and then the ID which is this weird, something like this.
Right, and then the current timestamp,
which is going to be a huge number, something like this,
and then of course the file extension, okay?
And with this we can basically guarantee
that there won't be two images with the same filename.
If we used only the user ID,
then of course multiple uploads by the same user
would override the previous image.
And if we only used user with the timestamp, well,
then if two users were uploading an image at the same time,
they would then get the exact same filename,
which does not make sense.
All right, so first of all,
let's actually extract the filename from the uploaded file.
And how do we get that?
Well let's take a look at our console output here,
where we had the request.file a long time ago.
So here it is, so remember that this object here
was request.file, and so that is exactly
what this file here is, okay?
And so here we have the mimetype,
and so that JPEG is stored right here, okay?
And so this is where we're gonna get
the file extension from.
So extension equals the file.mimetype,
and then let's split that string by the slash,
and take the second element of the resulting array.
And so that will then be only this part, so only this.
All right, so that is the extension.
And so now just like before,
we need to call the callback function with no error,
and then the filename that we want to specify.
So, that will be user-, then the user ID, remember?
And so since we have access to the request here,
that's very simple, request.user.id.
And so as you know, that's the ID
from the currently logged in user.
Then the timestamp, so Date.now, okay,
and then dot the extension that we just created, all right?
So let's get rid of this comment,
and so that is actually our storage.
And so basically a complete definition
of how we want to store our files,
with the destination and the filename.
Next up, let's create a Multer filter.
So let's call it exactly that.
And the filter in Multer is simply, again,
a callback function, similar to the ones we had before,
accessing the request, file, and a callback function.
And in this function, the goal is basically
to test if the uploaded file is an image.
And if it is so, then we pass true
into the callback function,
and if it's not we pass false into the callback function,
along with an error.
Because again, we do not want to allow files
to be uploaded that are not images.
And so that's exactly what this filter is for.
Now, if in your own application
you want to upload something else, let's say CSV files,
when then of course you can test for that instead of images.
So all the stuff that we're doing here
works not only for images,
but really for all kinds of files
that you want to upload, all right?
Now again, in this case we are really talking about images,
and so let's test if the uploaded file is an image.
And for that we will once more use the mimetype,
because whatever image type is uploaded,
so no matter if it's a JPEG, or a PNG, or a bitmap,
or a TIFF, or really anything,
the mimetype will always start with image.
And so now we can test for that.
So if file.mimetype.startsWith,
image, and so I'm not sure if we have used this one before,
but it is a fairly new and very useful string method
that is available in JavaScript,
so in all JavaScript in general.
So in case that we actually have an image, well,
then again there is no error and we pass true,
as I said in the beginning.
But otherwise, we will then actually pass an error,
and then false.
So let's just put an x here, and false.
So for this x here, we will now create an AppError,
just like we've been doing all along.
And actually we already have that here.
So let's say new AppError,
not an image,
please upload only images, all right?
And then a 400 for a bad request.
Great, so we have our storage, we have our filter,
now it's time to actually use them
in order to create the upload.
All right, so the upload will now not look like this,
but instead we will pass in these variables.
So in Multer we can specify the storage,
and so that is our multerStorage.
And then the fileFilter,
which is the variable that we called multerFilter.
Okay, and that's it.
And of course we could've put all of this here
directly into this options object here.
But I usually prefer to do these outside
and then simply pass the variables into an options object.
So that then looks a bit cleaner.
So this is a lot of steps that we need to take
in order to really create our Multer middleware.
But finally we then of course,
just like we did in the last video,
use this upload, and on that we call single,
with the name of the field.
So photo, and then from there we create an export,
or middleware, which we actually already included
into our router.
So let's now delete this old kind of image
that we had here before.
No, that didn't work.
And now let's actually test it here again.
So back in Postman, we still have our name here
and the Leo image, and so let's go.
And we got no error, which is good.
And let's see our output here again.
So everything here in the beginning is the same,
but then you see that our filename is actually now correct.
And if you take a look here at our folder,
then indeed there is our image.
And so that's exactly the one that we uploaded.
So that is in dev-data, images, Leo.
And indeed, that is exactly the same.
Great, that's awesome.
Now just to test this filter here as well,
let's try to upload some other file that is not an image.
So let's select something else here from our dev-data,
and let's say simply some JSON data.
And so let's wait if we get an error here.
And indeed we get one.
So not an image, please upload only images.
And so it means that that also works.
So perfect, all of our Multer configuration
now works really fine, but of course
there's still one step missing.
And that is to actually link the user
to the newly-updated image, right?
Because right now in the database,
we obviously still have the path,
or actually the name of the old image,
because nowhere in our code we specified
that we wanted to update the user document itself, right?
And so let's fix that in the next video.